.TH JSMN-FIND 3 "April 15th, 2022" "" "jsmn-find Manual"

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include \[dq]jsmn-find.h\[dq]

.br
.BI "void jsmnf_init(jsmnf_loader *" "loader" ");"
.br
.BI "int jsmnf_load(jsmnf_loader *" "loader" ", const char " "js" "[], \
jsmntok_t " "tokens" "[], "
.br
.BI "                unsigned int " "num_tokens" ", jsmnf_pair " \
"pairs" "[], unsigned int " "num_pairs" ");"
.br
.BI "jsmnf_pair *jsmf_find(jsmf_pair *" "head" ", char *const " "key" \
"[], int " "length" ");"
.br
.BI "jsmnf_pair *jsmf_find_path(jsmf_pair *" "head" ", char *const " "path" \
"[], int " "depth" ");"
.br
.BI "size_t jsmnf_unescape(char **" "p_dest" ", const char " "src" "[], \
size_t" "length" ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This library is an add-on for the popular minimalistic JSON parser jsmn, it
strives to keep a familiar and zero-allocation design. The purpose is to
provide an easy way to extract JSON fields from a JSON string by storing the
path of each field in a hashtable, with its path being used as the key.

When using this library, make sure to include JSMN
.I before
including this. Otherwise, jsmn-find will produce a compile-time error. Because
of this, and with jsmn-find being a single header, it uses static functions to
prevent redefining linker symbols. If you would like to avoid this, you can
define the
.B JSMN_HEADER
macro
.I before
including jsmn-find. This will
.I only
include declarations qualified with
.BR extern .
If you choose this route, create a C source file that will hold the full
function bodies that are included in the header. For example:

.RS
.B /* In every .c file that uses jsmn include only declarations: */
.br
.B #define JSMN_HEADER
.br
.B #include \[dq]jsmn.h\[dq]
.br
.B #include \[dq]jsmn-find.h\[dq]
.br

.B /* Additionally, create one jsmn-find.c file for jsmn-find implementation: \
*/
.br
.B #include \[dq]jsmn.h\[dq]
.br
.B #include \[dq]jsmn-find.h\[dq]
.br
.RE

What follows is a table of each public function that the programmer should use
in their application.
.TS
tab(;);
lb l
_ _
lb l
.
Function;Description
jsmnf_init();Initialize a jsmf_loader.
jsmnf_load();Populate jsmnf_pair array with JSMN tokens
jsmnf_find();Locate a jsmnf_pair by its associated key
jsmnf_find_path();Locate a jsmnf_pair by its full key path
jsmnf_unescape();Unescape a Unicode string
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
#include \[dq]jsmn.h\[dq]
.br
#include \[dq]jsmn-find.h\[dq]
.br

int main(void) {
.br
.BR "" "    ..."
.br
    // parse jsmn tokens first
.br
    jsmn_parser parser;
.br
    jsmntok_t tokens[256];
.br

    jsmn_init(&parser);
.br

    r = jsmn_parse(&parser, json, strlen(json), tokens, 256);
.br
    if (r <= 0) error();
.br

    // populate jsmnf_pairs with the jsmn tokens
.br
    jsmnf_loader loader;
.br
    jsmnf_pairs pairs[256];
.br

    jsmnf_init(&loader);
.br

    r = jsmnf_load(&loader, json, tokens, parser.toknext, pairs, 256);
.br
    if (r <= 0) error();
.br

    // assume the JSON : { "foo": { "bar": [ 1, 2, 3 ] } }
.br
    jsmnf_pair *f = jsmnf_find(pairs, "foo", strlen("foo"));
.br
    // Found: { "bar" : [ 1, 2, 3 ] }
.br
    printf("Found: %.*s\n", f->value.length, f->value.contents);
.br

.BR "" "    ..."

.br
    // assume the JSON : [ 1, 2, [ 1, [ { "b":true } ] ] ]
.br
    char *path[] = { "2", "1", "0", "b" };
.br
    jsmnf_pair *f = jsmnf_find_path(pairs, path, sizeof(path) / sizeof(char *));
.br

    // Found: true
.br
    printf("Found: %.*s\n", f->value.length, f->value.contents);
.br
}
.br
